Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to build our deck of cards.
So first of all let's start by creating a loop so we know that we've got a number of suits here and
we can loop through all of the values within suits.
So let's set X s within the suits and that's going to give us the ability to loop through every item
we have here within the suit's array so we can we're going to loop through essentially four times and
the next thing that we need to do we need to have another loop inside of here.
And for this one we want to use C and this one is going to loop through all the values within card phase
array.
So basically we're going to loop through four times for the outer loop and then for the inner loop we're
going to loop through 13 times for each value within that card.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to actually build out a card.
So let's create an object within here so this can be local and we'll give it a name of card.
So this is an object.
So first thing that we want to store with our object.
So let's store the actual suit that we're using will store suits ass within here.
And next item that we want to store is let's store the number that we're going to be using for the face
of the card.
So this could be a number it could be a letter depending on what the value is.
So this one is card face
and this one is not going to be s it's going to be C because we're looping through on the inner loop.
Another thing that I wanted to add in so notice over here that I do have this background color.
So for I'll show you how to set that one up and we're going to use a Terry operator for that.
So variable and this is local variable again where you use background color and we're going to check
to see what the value is of the suit and we're going to do the Turner condition here and then we'll
do the two operators here that.
So depending on what this condition is we're going to first check to see if the value of suits us is
equal to Hearts and then do the oar in here.
So we've got two conditions that we're looking for.
We're also looking to see if suits is equal to diamonds.
And if it is equal to those then we're going to return back the background color so that background
color is going to be red.
Otherwise the background color is going to be black.
This is giving us the ability to set the background color.
So let's add that in as well some background color and we just need to use that same variable that we
set there.
So there we go.
So now we've got all of the promoters we need in order to actually build out our card.
So the next thing that we need to do.
So we've built out the cart object and the next thing that we need to do is push that newly freshly
created card into that card's array.
So now we're actually we're building out the deck of cards.
And after we do the build of the deck of cards we can console log 8 cards so we can actually see what
gets output.
So let's take a look at that.
So I've got the screen open here the browser open here and I opened up the console.
So let's see what happens when I hit deal and actually doesn't matter what number we haven't hooked
up yet.
So we can take a look and we can see that we've effectively built out 52 cards so this 52 cards in the
deck and we've got all of the card values.
Remember again that the raise start at zero and they loop through everything there.
So now we've built our first function that we needed to build is to build the deck of cards.
So the next one that we need to do is we need to shuffle those cards because Notice the order of the
cards.
So this isn't going to make for a very interesting game because we already know the order of the cards.
So the function that we're going to use is going to be that same shuffling array function.
And this is the one where we swap the values and we decrease the values.
And so let me just put that one in there.
I'm going to copy and paste that one in from before and I am passing an argument in there.
So I need to pick that up here within the function.
So the next thing that we want to do is shuffle the cards so now let's console log what cards again
and after we've shuffled it let's take a look at our deck.
So go back out refreshed and hit.
Deal and we do need so it looks like there was an error there that we need to pass in the array as Array
not cards.
So let's go back and refresh it again and take a look at this.
So now we've got our listing of all of our cards.
And when I click it again we're going to see that we have another random order of cards.
So this one starting with eight of diamonds.
This one up here starting with seven of diamonds.
And when I hit it again I have one starting with six of hearts.
So the shuffling is working well and this is all we're doing is just randomizing the array.
So this was the same function that we had worked out earlier within the course where we created the
function to shuffle the cards or shuffle in array.
So it doesn't matter what you call it it's doing the same thing where it's looping through and it's
assigning random values and then swapping out the two values and then it's decreasing the number of
items here within the array.
And going down as it swaps the mode.
So lastly but not least we need to actually deal out the cards to the player.
So this is the last function that we need to take care of.
And we're also passing the cards within here so we can pick that up with an deal.
And now we need to build out the dealing of the cards.
So the first thing that we need to establish is how many players we have within this game.
So how many numbers we've got here and not to repeat ourselves.
But we already grabbed that value over here and we've already set that value.
So we can make use of it at this point and we could actually build out our Monte dimensional array using
that value that we've picked up.
And then we won't have to actually look at it again because we're going to have this value it's going
to actually be sitting within our within our players array.
So then we can just go and get the length of that.
So let's update this one.
So players I and we're going to equal players I to a basically an empty item within the array.
So this is going to be an array within an array multi-dimensional array.
So we're just building our players to be multi dimensional and this saves us the trouble of doing it
within this type of format where we've got a bunch of these square brackets within square brackets.
So you could do it that way as well.
But this is not as dynamic and we're trying to be as dynamic as possible within the building of the
application.
So let's pick up the length of the players will use none again because this is a local variable so we've
used it before but we're not using it globally anywhere.
So we know that if we get players length we're going to return back whatever value was initially here.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and I'll give you a couple of hints that we do need
to loop through the number of car number of players and we have two loops.
We have to actually loop through the number of cards and then we can loop through the players and deal
out a card to them and we can just simply push it into our players hand using the push method from a
raise.
And then lastly we're going to loop through the players again and we're going to output all of their
values visually within that message area.
Or we could call it output I could change it to put as well.
So we could do that and this would be the last step to just simply display that content.
So pause the video.
Try it out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So we do need to grab that.
I would put area.
So let's do our document get element by id and grab that element with the ID of output so that we're
ready to output content.
And next item that we need to do is we need to loop through the number of players so we know that we've
got a number here for players and we also need more dynamic variable for the players.
So set that up as zero.
And I'll show you what I mean as we go through the loop.
So let's do the loop far by and equal that to zero.
And we're going to loop by while the value of cards while we're in the loop through the entire length
of cards and we're going to increment this particular loop.
So now we need to make some magic happen where we need to get the values of the cards into our our players
hands.
And we know that in order to recall cards we can do cards.
And that will return that object that we built earlier and we can deposit that information into an array.
So let's set up an array.
So that's players and because this is a multi dimensional array.
So just to make things a little bit more complicated we need to identify which player it's going into.
So we're starting out at player zero so where we set that value of p there and then we're going to increment
them as we loop through and deposit the value of cards into each one of the players hands.
So instead of player 0 let's do player p.
And now let's increment.
And there's one thing that we need to watch out for.
We need to check to make sure that P is not less than or equal than the value of Nahm or the player's
length.
So we can actually shorten this and we can get rid of that very.
But we don't need to have that sitting there because we're only going to be using it.
We're actually we are going to be using it more than once so let's keep that as it was.
So next we need to just make sure that if p is larger than number then we're going to reset p back to
zero.
So we know that if we exceed the number of players we're in the default back to our zero value in the
next card it's going to go in that person's hand.
So basically this is all we need to do in order to deal out the cards is we need to loop through there.
And then each player will have their own set of cards within the hand.
So let's try to say.
Let's hit a deal or go into our console and let's see what's contained within the players are.
So I noticed that we selected three.
And each player now has a set of cards within their hands and we're all ready at this point to output
that content because we've got all of the information we need.
We've got the value here.
We've got the suit and we've got the color of the card.
So we are ready to make use of this information and actually put it into our t m l.
So let's create another loop and this loop is going to loop through.
So we can do var we could use I again because we've already used it.
We're not going to need it again so we can reset it.
While it's less than the number of players that was numb and we're going to increment I buy one.
So now let's let's start by output.
So set the inner each team out of the output there.
And we're going to simply just incremental it and I'll do a line break just to start it off and we'll
do player.
So we can list the player's number dynamically and we're going to do I plus one for this so that we
get the index value plus 1 and let's do another line breaks so that it's more readable.
So this is where we need to loop once again.
So we've got several loose within loops within this exercise.
So let's set up a variable and this time lets you use x.
So starting at zero and we need to loop through while X is less than player and this is where we're
going to use the number of I which is up there.
So this is a multi dimensional array.
We need to get the first item within there and we need to grab back that length so that we can properly
loop through all the values that are contained within that length
so lastly it's just a matter of actually outputting that card information and we can create a simple
variable here we'll just call it P.
Just a simple ply what we're outputting here.
And basically this is going to hold players and
X will give us that second item within that index.
So now with P we can return back all of that information that we need.
So let's build our team.
So that's the last thing that we need to do is just build out our age to Mel's style.
And this is what's going to give us the color so backslash to break out of our our special character
there.
And then now when you actually need to use the break and we're just going to do p B.G. color because
we've got the p now contains that object information for the card.
So it's as easy as this to simply grab that and then break out of that again close that off.
And next we need to actually put a value.
So we're going to do P and none.
So just going to go back up and I'm going to just check to see.
So I've got the card face value.
None.
So let's add that one in there and then next one that we want to do is we're going to add the and sign
so that we can get the proper.
Yes.
See I character double like character.
So this one is P and I believe we called it suit.
Let me just double check.
So we are going to get as suit returned back and then let's add this concatenate it together and we
can finish off that span.
So now we should be able to get that output there and close off the statement.
And then lastly let's just add in another line break so that we have line breaks between the different
players.
So are you ready.
Let's try this out.
So.
Save your code.
Go over to the browser refreshed and let's hit deal.
And there we go.
So we are dealing with all of the cards to the players.
Let's try adjusting this.
So now we've got three players and we're getting all of the cards that are contained within each player.
So there we go and I do try it out for yourself and you can make some adjustments to this as well to
really fine tune this particular exercise.
So there's a few things that we can do as well so we can actually put cards locally because we have
contained in all within this one function.
So we need to we can only we could use it by just setting it within here and then passing it into the
arrays so we can try that as well.
And I'll show you how to do that in the upcoming lesson.